New RSTUF Guide (#341)
repository-service-tuf/repository-service-tuf: docs/source/guide/deployment/guide/docker.rst

======
Docker
======

.. Warning::
  There are limitations to scaling this deployment strategy, as all nodes are
  running in the same host.

  This deployment is recommended for Tests, Development, POC and POV.

.. Note::

>     * For this deployment we will use RabbitMQ as the
>       :ref:`message queue/broker <guide/deployment/planning/deployment:Message Queue/Broker: Redis or RabbitMQ server>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * For this deployment RabbitMQ will be used as the
      :ref:`message queue/broker <guide/deployment/planning/deployment:Message Queue/Broker: Redis or RabbitMQ server>`.
```

    * This deployment uses the built-in RSTUF Authentication/Authorization

The All-in-one host deployment Repository Service for TUF (RSTUF) uses Docker
Engine and Docker Compose yaml file to deploy RSTUF and all the services as
containers.

.. note::
  See the complete :ref:`guide/deployment/planning/deployment:Deployment Configuration`
  for in-depth details.

Requirements
============

Software and tools
------------------

  * Docker Engine (with docker-compose)
  * Python >= 3.10
  * pip

Online Key
----------

This deployment requires the :ref:`guide/general/keys:Online Key`.

> See the chapter :ref:`guide/general/keys:Singing Keys`

Reviewer: is this url misspelled?  Signing Keys?

> .. centered:: You can skip it if you already have the online key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. centered:: Skip this section if an online key has already been secured.
```

Author: I'm doing a small change: `Skip this section if an online key has already been generated.`

RSTUF Command Line Interface (CLI) provides a feature for
:ref:`guide/repository-service-tuf-cli/index:Key Generation (``generate\`\`)`

.. include:: ../../repository-service-tuf-cli/index.rst
    :start-after: Key Generation (``generate``)

Steps
=====

1. Create a folder ``local-keyvault`` and add the online key

  .. code:: shell

    $ mkdir local-keyvault
    $ cp path/my/online.key local-keyvault/

2. Prepare the Docker Swarm to store RSTUF credentials:

   * ``SECRETS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`` is the `postgres` password
   * ``SECRETS_RSTUF_ADMIN_PASSWORD`` is the `admin`, user used to manage the
     RSTUF API tokens.
   * ``SECRETS_RSTUF_TOKEN_KEY`` is the token key used to hash the API tokens.
   * ``SECRETS_RSTUF_ONLINE_KEY`` is the online key.

    Initiating the Docker Swarm

    .. caution::

>         Do not use this credentials, it is just an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Do not use these credentials, as they are provided as example.
```

    .. code:: shell

      $ docker swarm init

    Postgres password

    .. code:: shell

      $ printf "secret-postgres" | docker secret create SECRETS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD -

    RSTUF admin password

    .. code:: shell

      $ printf "secret-password" | docker secret create SECRETS_RSTUF_ADMIN_PASSWORD -

    RSTUF API token key

    .. code:: shell

      $ printf $(openssl rand -base64 32) | docker secret create SECRETS_RSTUF_TOKEN_KEY -

    RSTUF Worker online key password

    .. code:: shell

      $ printf "online.key,strongPass" | docker secret create SECRETS_RSTUF_ONLINE_KEY -

    .. note::

      **HTTPS**

>       Add your Certificate and your Key in the secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Add the Certificate and the Key in the secrets
```

   * It uses Docker Volume for the persistent data and Volumes

    - ``rstuf-api-data``: Persist the
      :ref:`built-in RSTUF auth data <guide/deployment/planning/volumes:DATA [optional]>`.
    - ``rstuf-storage``: public TUF Metadata. Using RSTUF Worker with
      :ref:`LocalKeyVault storage backend <guide/deployment/planning/volumes:LocalStorage [Optional]>`.
    - ``rstuf-redis-data``: Persistent Redis data
    - ``rstuf-pgsql-data``: Persistent PostgresSQL data
    - ``rstuf-mq-data``:  Persistent RabbitMQ data

   * It uses Docker Secrets to store:

     - ``SECRETS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD``
     - ``SECRETS_RSTUF_TOKEN_KEY``
     - ``SECRETS_RSTUF_ADMIN_PASSWORD``
     - ``SECRETS_RSTUF_ONLINE_KEY``

     .. note::
        **HTTPS**

        Uncoment ``API_KEY`` and ``API_CRT`` in the `secrets` section
        (lines 18-22).

   * It uses RabbitMQ as the :ref:`broker/message queue <guide/deployment/planning/deployment:Message Queue/Broker: Redis or RabbitMQ server>`
   * It uses Redis for the :ref:`task results and RSTUF configuration <guide/deployment/planning/deployment:Result Backend and RSTUF Settings: Redis server>`.

>    * It uses simple python container as the webserver to exposes the public
>      TUF metadata from ``rstuf-storage``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * It uses a simple python container as the webserver to expose the public
     TUF metadata from ``rstuf-storage``
```

>    * It configures the ``repository-service-tuf-api`` configuration as
>      environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * It provisions the ``repository-service-tuf-api`` configuration as
     environment variables:
```

     - Broker Server: ``RSTUF_BROKER_SERVER``
     - Redis Server: ``RSTUF_REDIS_SERVER``
     - Enable the RSTUF Authentication/Authorization: ``RSTUF_AUTH``, ``SECRETS_RSTUF_TOKEN_KEY``, ``SECRETS_RSTUF_ADMIN_PASSWORD``

>    * It adds the ``repository-service-tuf-worker`` configuration as environment
>      variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * It provisions the ``repository-service-tuf-worker`` configuration as environment
     variables:
```

     - Storage backend: ``RSTUF_STORAGE_BACKEND``, ``RSTUF_LOCAL_STORAGE_BACKEND_PATH``
     - Key Vault backend: ``RSTUF_KEYVAULT_BACKEND``, ``RSTUF_LOCAL_KEYVAULT_PATH``, ``RSTUF_LOCAL_KEYVAULT_KEYS``
     - Broker Server: ``RSTUF_BROKER_SERVER``
     - Redis Server: ``RSTUF_REDIS_SERVER``
     - SQL (Postgres) Server: ``RSTUF_SQL_SERVER``, ``RSTUF_SQL_USER``, ``RSTUF_SQL_PASSWORD``

     .. note::
      **HTTPS**

>       - Uncoment repository-service-tuf-api environment ``SECRETS_RSTUF_SSL_CERT``, ``SECRETS_RSTUF_SSL_KEY``
>         for the certificate and key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Uncomment repository-service-tuf-api environment ``SECRETS_RSTUF_SSL_CERT``, ``SECRETS_RSTUF_SSL_KEY``
        for the certificate and key
```

>       - Uncoment the in repository-service-tuf-api secrets section ``API_CRT``, ``API_KEY``
>       - (Optionally) Comment port ``- 80:80``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Uncomment the in repository-service-tuf-api secrets section ``API_CRT``, ``API_KEY``
      - (Optionally) Comment port ``- 80:80``
```
